[OSDOCS-9373]: Azure CPMS failure domain misc updates (prework) (#63227)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cpmso-yaml-failure-domain-azure.adoc

[id="cpmso-yaml-failure-domain-azure_{context}"]
= Sample Azure failure domain configuration

The control plane machine set concept of a failure domain is analogous to existing Azure concept of an link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-web-pubsub/concept-availability-zones[_Azure availability zone_]. The `ControlPlaneMachineSet` CR spreads control plane machines across multiple failure domains when possible.

When configuring Azure failure domains in the control plane machine set, you must specify the availability zone name.

.Sample Azure failure domain values
[source,yaml]
----
failureDomains:
  azure:
  - subnet: <cluster_id>-master-subnet-0 <1>
  - subnet: <cluster_id>-master-subnet-1
  - subnet: <cluster_id>-master-subnet-2
  - zone: "1" <2>
  - zone: "2"
  - zone: "3"
  platform: Azure <3>
----

> <1> Each instance of `subnet` specifies a subnet that the installation program created. Each subnet corresponds to a zone. Do not change this value.

Reviewer: I am not entirely happy how we are just telling customers to not touch this. Ideally, we would explain the differences between the two network stacks and provide steps to convert from single subnet cluster to multi subnet cluster. 

But here for explaining the subnet field it is good enough, I guess.

+
[NOTE]
====

> Multiple subnets support the NAT gateway outbound routing strategy, which is a Technology Preview feature in {product-title} {product-version}. Your cluster might not use this feature.

Reviewer: This is techpreview in 4.14 because the CPMS work did not merge. It will likely be GA in 4.15 and default on new clusters.

The control plane machine set concept of a failure domain is analogous to existing Azure concept of an link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-web-pubsub/concept-availability-zones[_Azure availability zone_]. The `ControlPlaneMachineSet` CR spreads control plane machines across multiple failure domains when possible.

When configuring Azure failure domains in the control plane machine set, you must specify the availability zone name. An Azure cluster uses a single subnet that spans multiple zones.

> .Sample Azure failure domain values

Author: @RadekManak can you confirm which versions of OCP this format (including a `subnet` field, even though it's just one subnet) impacts? I think only 4.15+, but want to make sure.

The control plane machine set concept of a failure domain is analogous to existing Azure concept of an link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-web-pubsub/concept-availability-zones[_Azure availability zone_]. The `ControlPlaneMachineSet` CR spreads control plane machines across multiple failure domains when possible.

When configuring Azure failure domains in the control plane machine set, you must specify the availability zone name. An Azure cluster uses a single subnet that spans multiple zones.

.Sample Azure failure domain values
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machine.openshift.io/v1
kind: ControlPlaneMachineSet
metadata:
  name: cluster
  namespace: openshift-machine-api
spec:
# ...
  template:
# ...
    machines_v1beta1_machine_openshift_io:
      failureDomains:
        azure:
        - zone: "1" # <1>
        - zone: "2"
        - zone: "3"
        platform: Azure # <2>
# ...
----
<1> Each instance of `zone` specifies an Azure availability zone for a failure domain.
+
[NOTE]
====

> If the cluster is configured to use a single zone for all failure domains, this parameter is configured in the provider specification.

Author: Better?
```suggestion
If the cluster is configured to use a single zone for all failure domains, the `zone` parameter is configured in the provider specification instead of in the failure domain configuration.
```

> If the cluster is configured to use a single zone for all failure domains, this parameter is configured in the provider specification.

Reviewer 2: Yes, thanks!
